Baseline Comparison: MLP vs. base CNN — what was the accuracy difference? Why does the CNN do better (or not)?
In my MLP baseline I achieved a test accuracy of 0.9782 (97.82%) which is actually really high. I was not expecting it to do that well. My base CNN had an accuracy of 0.9825 (98.25%) which is slightly better. This makes sense, as the CNN architecture is much better adapted to visual input than a MLP. The MLP looks for relationships between all data points, whereas the CNN compares data in groups, and learns features at different 'levels' across the image. I think that the MLP was able to perform comperably because all digits where in the same place on the picture, in the same orientation, and made up of simple pixel arrangements. All 1's in the dataset for example are going to be pretty similar pixel by pixel, so the MLP is able to do a pretty good job. If you started moving the digits into different parts of the image, or changing the orientation of the digits, I expect you would then see a large gap in performance between MLP and CNNs.

Experiment Summary
See "experiment_summary_table.png"

Analysis of Experiments: For each experiment in Parts 4 and 5, what did you change, what did you expect, and what happened? Reference your MLflow metrics.
For my first custom experiment (experiment 3 in experiment_summary_table.png), I tried increasing the kernel size from 3x3 to 5x5. I was curious if with such simple shapes it was necessary to have such a granular kernel size, and I though that a larger size may be better suited for learning the simple patterns between the digits. I kept all other aspects of the model the same as with the base CNN (experiment 2). I noticed a slight increase in test accuracy from 0.9825 to 0.9868, so I do think that the 5x5 kernel produced better results. However, for my future experiments I wanted to try to improve by reducing the size of the hidden dimensions, because I noticed that the loss was converging very quickly and I thought it might be too aggressively learning patterns at the higher parameter count hidden layers. 

Therefore for my 4th test I decided to return to 3x3 kernel size, and instead improve on the base model by only altering the higgden dimensions. My test accuracy was 0.9865, which is better than in experiment 2 (the base model). Since reducing the size of the model while holding all other hyperparameters the same was so effective, I thought that first a hidden dimension size of 32 was clearly too much. 

In experiment 4 I only reduced the total parameter count, so for experiment 5 I thought that I could increase it slightly and allow for deeper learning. For my final test I added a 3rd hidden layer of 32 dimensions. Keeping all other hyperparameters constant, I achieved the best test accuracy of 0.9903, my only test above 99% accuracy.

Visualization Discussion: What do the learned filters look like? How do the feature maps relate to the input?
I looked at the learned filters for the digit 7. It was actually really interesting, each filter has only a few white or lighter pixels, arranged in seemingly random shapes. However when you look at all the filters together, they do seem to have learned a vertical or slightly slanting backwards line, with a horizontal line, as well as a horizontal line. It is abstract, but I can see why these filters apply to a 7 and not to any other digits. Another digit which has a horizontal line like a 4 or a 5 for example, would not have the backwards slanted / line that the 7 has. 

Reflection
Overall I found that CNNs performed better than the MLP baseline across the board, regardless of the architecture that I tried. I was also pleased that some of my intuition about the architecture seemed to be correct (from the test loss at least). I guessed that with the smaller dataset my initial architecture of 32-64 hidden dimensions in conv layers was too much, and as expected, saw improvements by breaking that out into more layers of smaller dimensions. More than anything though, I think the visualization of the learned filters helped me understand CNNs the best. The idea of 'kernels' learning weights, and in this case the weights are pixels, was really confusing to me throughout this whole unit. I just didn't understand what the resulting 'filter' would be. Being able to actually see the filters learned from a 7, and imagine how they stack together to form distincitly a 7 out of the available digit classifications, was very eye opening. I feel like I have a much better grasp on how more complicated patterns like a dog or a person could be learned.